Befotteh eL aws tandas doorkeepTero.t hisd oorkeepthere rec omea>
countrymaannd p raysfo ra dmittantcoe t heL awB. mt hed oorkeeper
say,t hath ec annogt rama dm111aantt chee m oniemT.h em ant hink1st
ovear ndt hena sksif h~wilble a lloweidnl ater". Iti 1p ossibles,a"y sth e
doorkeepe"br,u t nota t them omentS."i ncteh eg ates tando>p ena, s
usuala, ndt he doorkeep,erer pst o ones ide,t hem ans toopsto peer
througthh eg atewaiym ot hei nterioOr. bservinthga t,t hed oorkeeper
laughasn ds ays«: ]f youa res od rawnto it, just ryt o goi n despitme y
veto.B utt aken ott:I amp owerfuAl.n dI amo nlyt he! easot f the
doorkeepeFrrso. mh altlo h altlh ereis o ned oorkeepatfrt ear notheera, ch
morep owerftuhla nt hel astT. het hirdd oorkeepisea r lreadsyo t ernb k
thate venIc annobte arto l ooka th im.T' hma red ifficulttiheesc ountrymanh
asn ote xpectetdh;e L awh, et hinkss,h oul,du rdyb ea ccessibalte
all timesa ndt o evef}onbeu. t as he nowt akesa closelro oka t the
doorkeepinerh isf oro oatw, ithh isb jgih,a_~r-po_~a _n tlo!)i;,_tb_l~anck' .
Tartabr eardh ed ecide1hsa 1 it isb ettetro w aitu nrihl eg m penmss1on
to entern. :do orkeepgeil"re Sh imJ stooal ndl et,h ims itd owna t one
sideo ft hed oorT. herhee 1 i1, ford aya, ndy ea1H1.e m akemi anayt tempt1
to be admittedan, dw earietsh ed oorkeepbeyrh isi mportuniTryh.e
doorkeepfreerq uenhtlaysl i tclein terviewist hh im:,t Skinghqiruur nions
abouht ish omaen dm anoyt hetrh ingsb,u tt heq uemonasre p uti ndii!erem\
ya, sg realto rdsp litt hema, n<all wayfsin iswh ithth eo tatemetmha t
hec annobt el etm y etT. hem anw, hoh asf urnishhedim sewl!i thm anr
things for his journey, sacrifices all he has) however valuable, to bribe the
doorkeeper. That official accepts everything, but always with the remark:
"I am only taking it to keep you from thinking vou have. ofllitted anv•
tliin􀓥:" Dunngtneseman'yy􀓦ars th􀓧 ma􀓨 fixes his ;􀓩;;;􀓪n 􀓫i􀓬ostconti􀓭uous!
y on the doorkeeper. He forgets the other doorkeepers, and this first
one seems to him the sole obstacle preventing access to the Law. He curses
bis'EaiI iucli, in his early yearsfoldly and loudly, later, as he grows old,
he only grumbles to himself. He becomes childish, and since in his years•
long contemplation of the doorkeeper he has come to know even the fleas
in his for collar, he begs the fleas as well to help him and to change the
doorkeeper's mind. At length his eyesight begins to fail, and he does not
know whether the world is really darker or whether his eyes are only
deceiving him. Yet in his darkness he is now aware of a radiance that
streams inextinguishably from the gateway of the Law. Now he has not
very long to live, Before he dies, all his experiences in these long years
gather themselves in his head to one point, a question he has not yet asked
the doorkeeper. He waves him nearer, since he can no longer raise his
stiffening body. The doorkeeper has to bend low towards him, for the
difference in height between them has altered much to the countryman's
disadvantage. "What do you want to know now?" asks the doorkeeper.
"You are insatiable.• "Everyone strives to reach the Law," says the man,
"so how does it happen that for all these many years no one but myself
has ever begged for admittance?" The doorkeeper recognizes that rhe
man has reached his end, and to let his failing senses catch the words
roars in his ear: "No one else coul􀓮􀓯.srt:.!dmitted here, since this gate
was made on􀓰f,ory<>,\!,I a!ll-n£!$◊-i􀓱g to slmEi: